[Voice] We beg you...
[Voice] Please become...
our Goddess of Wisdom.
Oh...must be time already.
Thank you.
Hello...
It's been a while.
I'm sorry.
Who are you?
Wait.
You don't remember
what the person who saved
your life looked like?
It's safe to say
I haven't been through
any life-threatening events
in the last decade at least.
It was two years ago,
it happened here...
[gasp]
-[children laughing]
-[Kuro gasp]
Are you going
to be all right?
[gasp]
Uh, thank you.
I guess you saved me.
Oh, sorry!
It's fine.
As the one who saved
your life,
all I ask is that
you remember me forever.
That's going
a bit overboard.
Although...
I guess it is possible
to die that way.
Right, I'll remember.
He reminds me
of a goat.
[Kotoko] Goats are skinny,
spacey beasts
that spend their whole lives
obliviously munching on grass,
day in and day out.
But you can feel a bizarre
sort of vitality in them.
Yes, one must never
underestimate a goat.
An extremely agile creature
that has no problems
living in highlands
or even wastelands.
And...depending
on the breed...
it may also have
two powerful horns.
They're almost like
demon horns.
Horns of
undeniable sharpness...
Is this...
what they mean by
"love at first sight"?!
[Kuro] Oh...
That girl was you?
But that girl wasn't
wearing a beret.
I feel like I would have
remembered that...
And you can
only tell girls apart
by which hat they're wearing?
Hey, sorry.
I'm not that good at
remembering girls' faces.
And if I remember them
too well,
it just makes Saki grumpy.
In that case,
please try to remember
it again.
My name's Kotoko Iwanaga.
Written with the characters
for "koto" like the instrument,
then "child," "rock,"
and "eternity."
I'm seventeen years old,
and quite lively.
Cool.
I won't forget this time.
Yeah, I'm so sure...
considering I heard that
you and Saki broke up.
How'd you know that?
[Saki]
What are you doing, Kuro?
Oh, Saki...
Uh, actually...
she sort of saved my life.
I saw.
I'm so sorry for
the trouble he caused.
And thank you.
[Kotoko] Why are you
the one apologizing?
-[Kuro] I lost my balance.
[Kotoko] What is she?
His older sister?
Actually, she could
be his younger sister...
[Nurse 1] His name is
Kuro Sakuragawa.
He's a second-year at
Homei University, studying law.
He comes here often to
visit his cousin
who's a long-term patient.
Is this cousin of his
a somewhat tall woman
with long, dark hair?
[Nurse 2] Oh no, they're not
related to each other.
That's Saki.
She's a year older
and his girlfriend.
They've dated since
they were in high school.
Kuro even decided to go
to the same university
that she was attending.
Then, two years
after our first encounter...
Apparently, Kuro and Saki
are getting married
after they graduate.
I heard they just met
each other's parents recently.
[gasp]
They'll be getting
married any day now.
[grunt]
He's alone today?
Did Kuro and his girlfriend
break up or something?
What? I doubt it.
You know...he stopped talking
about his girlfriend
right around February.
You're right.
And he hasn't really talked
to anyone recently.
[Kuro] What is this
hospital's policy
on handling personal
information, anyway?
They said they had
no obligation to protect
a visitor's
personal information.
Is that how it works?
It really is a bit shady.
Though to be fair,
they never did tell me
who your cousin is
or why they're in the hospital.
Never even said a word.
You're better off
not knowing.
The reasons people are
hospitalized long-term
aren't usually that amusing.
So, in regard to the rumors
that you and Saki broke up
right before spring...
They don't care about
my privacy at all, do they?
You weren't kidding...
The point here is,
that you're back to
being single again.
Have you maybe thought
about trying
a fresh start
with someone new?
Could you get
to the point already?
Very well then.
How about dating me
with marriage in mind?
I've held this one-sided love
for two years,
just waiting for this moment!
You're surprisingly direct,
despite how you look.
And if you waited two years,
pretty persistent, too.
A young lady can
always wait for fate.
The thing is,
there'd be problems,
on account of you being
a middle schooler...
[furious] I told you!
I'm seventeen years old
and in high school!
I even plan on applying to
your university next year!
What, do you have
the memory of a chicken?!
Was what I said really
that funny?
Nah...
It just made me feel happy.
A high school girl just
asked me to go out with her.
I guess maybe I'm not
a total lost cause.
Haven't felt
this great in a while.
I see.
Did Saki dump you?
It wasn't Saki fault.
There was no way
around it.
So, I'm not sure
I'm ready to see anyone new.
So what was it,
and be specific,
that ended your courtship
in a sudden break-up?
Over the winter...
Saki and I went on
a trip to Kyoto.
But you weren't married!
What would people think?!
What decade were
you born in anyway?
[Kuro] So, late one night,
when we were walking
along the Kamo River...
Hmm?
What?
Those things that show up
on shorelines?
Yup. It was a kappa.
It wasn't a gataro,
suiko, or hyosube?
You sure know
your stuff.
[Kuro]
Whatever it actually was,
calling it a kappa
seemed to fit best.
All I know is that
what I saw
wasn't a human or
an animal.
But it was definitely
some kind of
moving, breathing life form.
The moment
we realized that,
it became something
so terrifying,
that it felt like all
the rules of our world,
were about to crack open.
But generally speaking,
kappas aren't bad.
These days,
they're very trendy creatures
that can recommend good sushi
or shrimp chips.
Well, the one I saw
looked like
he'd drag you into
the river...
and suck out every last drop
of your blood.
[Kuro] The next day,
they actually found a body
in the river near there.
It was ruled an accident...
cause unknown.
Saki's a brave,
no-nonsense girl,
and she doesn't believe
in yokai or ghosts.
But she saw that thing
and got so scared,
she just clung to me,
shaking.
And then?
What happened?
Without a second glance
Saki's way,
Well, there were
some cowardly whimpers,
and running off
like a scared rabbit.
Well, it was a kappa.
[Kuro] After that,
she said she never knew
I was that kind of person,
and things got awkward.
She was already planning
to move away for her new job.
That was her excuse
to break up.
And honestly,
who could blame her?
I don't really care
if you believe me or not.
If you don't,
then I'm just a crazy
college kid who blames
a kappa for the fact that
his girlfriend dumped him.
Or...
Maybe I'm a college kid
who went crazy
from the shock of
getting dumped.
Regardless, I'm not worthy
to be your boyfriend.
Gotta go,
my bus'll be here soon.
[Kotoko] But we aren't
done talking yet.
Please clarify the subject
of your statement.
Who, exactly,
left Saki and ran off?
It wasn't you that ran off.
It was the kappa, right?
The kappa saw you
next to Saki,
got scared, and ran off.
There's no doubt.
An awful experience
for that kappa,
just randomly running into you
in the middle of the night.
I feel sorry for it.
[Kotoko] Saki saw that
terrifying yokai run away
after seeing you.
She wondered who you
really were...and got spooked.
And that's when she said
she never knew you were
that kind of person.
Isn't that right?
You've made one key mistake
in your investigation.
Kappas don't exist
to begin with.
Even though
you just said they did?
Well, that was a lie.
Think about it.
Like I'm gonna tell a girl
about my break-up.
I'm really only slightly
acquainted with kappas,
but I am quite
knowledgeable about
creatures like it.
This town...
and even this hospital,
has yokai, ayakashi, spectres.
And, even demons
are lurking everywhere.
[Kotoko] In the shadows of
the azaleas,
and atop the dogwoods,
they are quietly
observing all we do.
Most of them are
just curious
and mean no harm,
but they do in fact exist
everywhere you look.
I hear them whisper
when they see you,
their voices strained in fear...
"He's something different.
He's... He's terrifying."
[crunch]
Who the hell are you?
And what makes you so certain
that these things exist?
When I was eleven,
I was kidnapped for
two straight weeks
by these mythical creatures.
[Kotoko] Deep in the mountains
where they took me,
they pleaded with me,
the girl they had kidnapped...
"We beg you.
Please become our Goddess
of Wisdom," they said.
[Kuro]
Goddess of Wisdom?
[Kotoko] Most of these creatures
were of low intellect,
so they were looking for
someone who could help them,
someone to quell
their fighting,
and to establish peace
among them.
[Voices] Please!
Please help us,
we beseech you.
[Kotoko]
So I gave them my answer...
Yes, I'll do it!
[Voices] My lady!
Thus, ever since then...
whenever they have
problems or conflicts,
they come from all over
the country
to ask me to mediate
or find solutions.
That's hard to believe.
Too true.
Since that's the case,
find a newspaper
from July six years ago.
[Kotoko] There's an article
about a fifth-grade girl
named Kotoko Iwanaga,
who disappeared from
this town rather suddenly,
and how, two full weeks
after vanishing,
the girl was found
napping quietly
on a park bench in town.
Though her left leg
was severed...
and also, her right eye
had been completely
gouged out of the socket.
[Kuro gasps]
[Kotoko] Unsurprisingly,
the culprit was never caught.
It's time. Bye now.
We'll pick this up later.
[Driver]
The doors are closing.
Please be careful.
Now departing.
[growls]
[growling]
[charging]
[Fallen Warrior]
My lady! Are you hurt?!
Please tell me
you're all right!
I was so frightened,
I thought that vile creature
might try to eat you alive!
There's no need
to worry so much.
He didn't even lay
a finger on me.
But my lady,
what could you possibly see
in that smelly,
terrifying monstrosity?!
I'm sure it's difficult
for all you yokai to imagine,
but to me, well...
this Kuro guy is
quite the looker.
[Kotoko giggles]
Erm, could it be possible
that your left eye
was taken out as well?
Do you want to
get forcibly exorcised?
Oh, no, my lady!
I still have so many
Harlequin Romance novels
left to read!
I couldn't possibly move on
to the afterlife just yet!
Those are probably
the last words
I ever expected to hear
from you.
But that creature
I mentioned before
is still at the library,
so I haven't been able
to go in days.
Please get rid of that thing
as soon as you can.
I haven't forgotten...
I might be able to
take care of it tomorrow.
As long as Kuro is able
to help me out,
it shouldn't be too hard.
[Kotoko] In Japan's greatest
literary work,
the Kojiki,
there is a mention of
a god named Kuebiko.
It cannot walk because
it only has one leg,
but it is a god of wisdom
full of knowledge of the world.
It also mentions,
that at times,
beings with only one eye
were also regarded as gods,
or something similar.
The kinds of gods that have
either one leg or one eye...
can be found in stories
throughout
the world's cultures.
[Doctor 1]
The surface is rough...
but it's been melted and
hardened by some kind of acid.
We won't have to take
any further action.
[Doctor 2] Her right eye
has been gouged out...
but there's no pus
or swelling.
It's basically healed.
[Doctor 1] What in the world
happened to this little girl?
[Cop 1] Can you
tell me where
you were these last
two weeks, Kotoko?
Were you with someone?
If there's anything
you remember,
you can tell me.
[Kotoko] Does that mean
the reason my left leg and
my right eye were taken
was to make me a god?
That...
isn't a bad trade at all.
I don't really remember.
Sorry.
-Hello.
-[Kuro gasps]
Did you finish with
your research?
Apparently,
there was a Kotoko Iwanaga
involved in some kind
of incident six years ago.
That's all I found.
There's still not any proof
about monsters or yokai...
or you becoming
some kind of god to them.
Indeed.
That could all be
a fantasy in my head.
And if that's really
the case,
I'm just a girl who went
crazy after being kidnapped
by some lunatic mutilator.
Whether you believe me
or not is entirely your choice.
But I may be
the only one in this world
who can truly understand you.
You're saying those
who ended up with
either one eye or one leg
sometimes become
a sacrifice to the gods?
That's right...
A sacrifice to
forge a connection,
or sometimes a priestess
who can hear
the voices of the gods.
[Bake-danuki] My lady!
Hey, slow down!
What is it, Bake-danuki?
The library boundary's
been broken!
That's going to cause
all kinds of trouble!
Please help- -
[scream]
My lady,
how many times did
we ask you to stay away from
this terrifying creature?!
Now Kuro,
don't scare them like that.
I didn't even
do anything...
Maybe...
But it certainly isn't good
that the barrier is down.
Time to go.
Why don't you come
with us, Kuro?
Huh?
We'll get rid of
any doubts you may have
by engaging in
an actual battle.
No need.
I don't doubt anything
after seeing monsters
asking you for help.
I believe you. See ya.
Oh,
don't be like that.
The yokai in
the library's dangerous.
It's a monster both
violent and evil.
There might be an article
in tomorrow's paper about it:
A girl with one eye
and one leg
who was brutally murdered!
A tragic end for a girl
who confessed her love for you,
even if you weren't ready...
If it came to that,
you wouldn't be able to
escape your pangs of guilt,
now would you?
[Kotoko] Thanks for your help,
but I'm not sure about
the way you're carrying me.
Isn't the "princess carry"
normal in these situations?
To be fair,
I don't know what about
this situation is normal.
Hmm?
Um... Are you all--?
[Fallen Warrior]
My lady, it's you!
Easy, Kuro.
It's just
a fallen warrior spirit.
My lady!
I'm utterly powerless against
the sheer violence
of that thing!
[growl]
That's quite enough.
The human world and
ayakashi realm
have to maintain
their balance.
Those who disregard the rules
can't be allowed...
[terrified gasp]
We tried running
your big mouth,
so what do we do now?
That's unexpected.
What?!
I should have been
able to easily contain
a rogue yokai like that
after it took one look
at you, but no...
It's in such a panic
that it can't see
what's going on around it.
So in other words,
you only wanted me
for my body?
I was serious
when I asked you out....
It hurt me deeply
to go after
your body like this
on our very first date.
Do you have
some kind of plan?
Any talismans you can use?
If it doesn't want
to listen to me,
we'll have to use force.
Use force?
[growl]
[Kotoko gasps]
Ah...that's it...
I definitely prefer
being held like this.
I feel so close
to you now.
This isn't the time
for that...
I suppose you
DO have a point.
[growl]
We should flee for now.
Kuro, what gives?
We can do all the naughty
things you want later...
Not that.
I can't let you do
anything reckless.
Run, Kuro--
[Kotoko gasps]
[surprise]
[shock]
[Kotoko] Two years ago,
and now...
You have that same
unfazed look on your face.
Why are you so calm?!
How can you be so unfazed
when you're in danger?!
Someone as reckless
as you
shouldn't be lecturing me
on that.
Besides,
I thought you'd already
figured it out by now.
Huh?
[gasp]
Yeah, I guess my flesh really
is poisonous to them.
[groan]
Wait, Kuro...
I wanna know.
Who are you, really?
You mean the ones
asking for your wisdom
won't tell you who I am?
Everyone avoids talking
about certain things,
especially if those things
terrify them.
You're right.
If I were to
borrow your words...
When I was just eleven,
I consumed two different kinds
of yokai flesh...
All I could eat.
[Ending Song]
The Guardian Serpent
of Tsukuna Swamp...
asks me for help concerning
a problem that's been
keeping them up at night.
A murderer apparently
disposed of a body
in their swamp...
But something about
it's been bothering them.
Next time,
"What the Guardian
Serpent Heard."